# Your Job Description {#your-job-description .unnumbered}

Your primary job as teaching assistants in this course is to help the
students understand the material. You know the material (otherwise we
wouldn't have selected you as a TA), so on that front, we're good.

But, at the same time, we want to ensure that the students develop
healthy study habits: that they learn *how* to learn logic and
mathematics. My impression is that most first-year students are still
very much in a high-school mindset: they prioritize memorization over
understanding, they study (only) for exams (if at all), they expect
exercises/exam questions to be straight-forward applications of known
procedures, .... With this attitude, they will not succeed at university
(or on the job market, for that matter), so something needs to be done
about that. To help the students out here is your secondary job.

So what are healthy study habits, precisely? Kevin Houston, in the
preface to his fantastic tutorial *How to Think Like a Mathematician*
(OUP, ) gives some "friendly advice" for students, which I'm going to
repeat here (this is a direct quote from p. x of that book):

-   *It's up to you* --- Your actions are likely to be the greatest
    determiner of the outcome of your studies. Consider the ancient
    proverb: The teacher can open the door, but you must enter by
    yourself.

-   *Be active* --- Read the book. Do the exercises set.

-   *Think for yourself* --- Always good advice.

-   *Question everything* --- Be sceptical of all results presented to
    you. Don't accept them until you are sure you believe them.

-   *Observe* --- The power of Sherlock Holmes came not from his
    deductions but his observations.

-   *Prepare to be wrong* --- You will often be told you are wrong when
    doing mathematics. Don't despair; mathematics is hard, but the
    rewards are great. Use it to spur yourself on.

-   *Don't memorize* --- seek to understand --- It is easy to remember
    what you truly understand.

-   *Develop your intuition* --- But don't trust it completely.

-   *Collaborate* --- Work with others, if you can, to understand the
    mathematics. This isn't a competition. Don't merely copy from them
    though!

-   *Reflect* --- Look back and see what you have learned. Ask yourself
    how you could have done better.

So, how can *you* help students develop healthy study habits?
Analogously to Houston's advice for students, here's my advice for you
as teaching assistants:

-   *Expect preparation* --- If a student asks for help with a problem,
    ask them what they've tried so far. If it becomes evident that they
    didn't put it enough effort, make this crystal clear to them!

    *Example*:

    S:

    :   Hey, I'm stuck trying to show that $X\subseteq Y$ iff
        $X\cup Y=Y$.

    TA:

    :   Ok, what have you done so far?

    S:

    :   Nothing actually, I'm really stuck.

    TA:

    :   So, what does $X\subseteq Y$ mean?

    S:

    :   Hm\... no idea!

    That's an example where the student hasn't put in the work. Tell
    them that they need to check the relevant definitions
    ($\subseteq, \cup,$ iff). Don't help them until they've shown the
    work.

-   *Ensure precision* --- Make sure that students use the key concepts
    in the precise, mathematical sense in which they were defined in
    class. Convey the (high) standards of precision in mathematical
    reasoning by correcting even small mistakes.

-   *Be interactive* --- Don't just give (pre-formulated) answers. Try
    to answer a question with another question to find out where the
    lack of understanding derives from. Try to figure out the correct
    answer together.

-   *Refer to the material* --- Ensure that the students read the slides
    and the lecture notes. For example, when a student doesn't know the
    definition of a term, ask them where in the notes it's given.

-   *Encourage independent thinking* --- Ask the students to come up
    with their own examples or exercises and go through them together.
    Don't just rely on the pre-formulated examples and exercises from
    the notes.

-   *Be demanding* --- Have high standards and expectations: don't
    "cuddle" the students. But reward effort.

-   *Be human* --- Admit to your own mistakes, everything doesn't need
    to be perfect. This teaches the students intellectual honesty. When
    a student points out a mistake, thank them and correct it. When you
    don't know a definition or the answer to a question, look it up.

When in doubt, talk to me!

# Your Responsibilities {#your-responsibilities .unnumbered}

Here are your more hands-on responsibilities:

-   *Run your workgroup*

    Answer questions about the material covered in class, go through the
    solutions to the assigned exercises, let students do additional
    exercises from the book or of your own design.

-   *Give formative feedback on assignments*

    Students are asked to submit solutions to the assigned exercises for
    feedback. Give constructive feedback on those, don't assign a grade.
    Make clear that you're not an assessor but an assistant (you don't
    grade them, you help them understand). You can decide whether your
    students need to submit digitally or on paper. We don't control
    whether students submit, but make it clear to them that without your
    feedback, they're *very* unlikely to succeed.

    For the notion of formative feedback, see
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Formative_assessment>.

-   *Keep a record of presentations*

    Once per term, every student has to give a short presentation on
    their solution to one of the exercises. Assign a session to each
    student in the first meeting (it should work out to about 2 students
    per workgroup meeting, feel free to shift things around). If a
    student presents, they have to submit their solution to you for
    feedback at the latest in the workgroup meeting before the one in
    which they're going to present. Don't grade the assignment or
    presentation, but give constructive feedback. Keep a record of who
    presented when and pass it on to us at the end of term. If a student
    doesn't present, they can't complete the course.

    **Not sure I can have this requirement this year.**

-   *Attend the weekly TA meeting*

    We will run a weekly meeting with all of you (there'll be a separate
    email about that). In the meetings, you discuss how the groups are
    going, any problems that pop up, and possible unclarities about the
    material (exercises, slides, notes).

-   *Improve the lecture notes*

    The lecture notes are still very much a work in progress. We need to
    improve them (typos, solutions to exercises, etc.). For this, I'd
    like to ask your help. We'll do this via github, as explained in our
    first meeting.

# Feedback Categories {#feedback-categories .unnumbered}

Please use the following summative feedback categories for the
assignments (in addition to formative feedback you'd like to give). We
will also use them in grading, so this will make the procedure more
transparent for the students:

      Abbreviation     Mistake
  -------------------- -------------------------------------
                       Error/mistake (generic)
          Df.          Incorrect or imprecise definition
         Q**?**        Question not read correctly
   $\not\Rightarrow$   Non-sequitur, reasoning mistake
         $\neq$        Calculation mistake
     $\qedsymbol$?     QED missing, reasoning incomplete
         **x**?        Undeclared variables
   $\Rightarrow$**?**  Right-to-left direction missing
   $\Leftarrow$**?**   Left-to-right direction missing
   $\underline{\lor}$  Distinction by cases not exhaustive
         $abc$         Write complete sentences.
                       No paintings!

Please circle the mistake and put the corresponding symbol on the
margins. This only concerns summative feedback (what went wrong). I'll
think about whether we standardize formative feedback categories as well
(input welcome).
